As there are plenty of options for architecture styles you could get a bit confused in this chapter. You will have to consider the trade-offs for each one of them in order to choose wisely. One thing is clear, the Big Ball of Mud approach is not an option as the code will rot pretty fast. Layered architecture is a better option but it presents some disadvantages like tight coupling between layers. Arguably, the most balanced option would be the Hexagonal Architecture, as it can be used as a foundational base architecture. It promotes a high-level degree of decoupling and symmetry between the inside and outside of the application. 

We have also seen CQRS and Event Sourcing as pretty flexible architectures that will help you in fighting serious complexity. CQRS and Event Sourcing have their place but do not let ‘the coolness factor’ distract you from the value they provide. As they come with some overheads, you should have a technical reason for justifying its use. These architectural styles are indeed really useful and the heuristics to start using them can be discovered in the number of finders on the repositories for CQRS and the volume of triggered events for Event Sourcing. If the number of finder methods starts growing and repositories become hard to maintain then it is time to consider the use of CQRS, to split read and write concerns. And after that, if the volume of events on each aggregate operation tends to grow and the business is interested in more granular information then an option to consider is whether a move towards Event Sourcing would pay off.

